Move connectivty tutorials (#2282)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/tutorials/connectivity/ingress/configuration/index.md

            port:
              number: SERVICE_1_PORT
  - host: YOUR_CHOICE_2.CLUSTER_ID.k8s.gigantic.io
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: SERVICE_2_NAME
            port:
              number: SERVICE_2_PORT
```

__Note__: If you are using TLS you also need each of the hosts in the `tls` section (see below) of the YAML.

### Path Based Fan-out

You can route an ingress to different Services based on the path:

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: ingress
metadata:
  name: INGRESS_NAME
spec:
  ingressClassName: nginx
  rules:
  - host: YOUR_CHOICE_1.CLUSTER_ID.k8s.gigantic.io
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /foo
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: SERVICE_1_NAME
            port:
              number: SERVICE_1_PORT
      - path: /bar
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: SERVICE_2_NAME
            port:
              number: SERVICE_2_PORT
```

__Note__: Your applications need to be capable of running on a non-root path either by default or by setting the base path in their configuration.

> ### TLS

Author: ```suggestion
### Encryption
```

```

You can add users to the same file with:

```nohighlight
$ htpasswd auth foo2
New password: PASSWORD
New password:
Re-type new password:
Adding password for user foo2
```

Next, we create a secret containing our `auth` file:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
type: Opaque
metadata:
  name: AUTH_SECRET
data:
  auth: BASE64_ENCODED_AUTH
```

Last, we create the ingress with the according annotations:

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: ingress
metadata:
  name: INGRESS_NAME
  annotations:
    # Authentication type [basic|digest]
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-type: basic
    # Name of the secret that contains the user/password definitions
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-secret: AUTH_SECRET
    # Message to display with an appropiate context why the authentication is required
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-realm: "Authentication Required - foo"
spec:
  ingressClassName: nginx
  rules:
  - host: YOUR_CHOICE.CLUSTER_ID.k8s.gigantic.io
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: SERVICE_NAME
            port:
              number: SERVICE_PORT
```

### External Authentication

> To use an existing service that provides authentication the ingress rule can be annotated with `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-url` to indicate the URL where the HTTP request should be sent. Additionally it's possible to set `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-method` to specify the HTTP method to use (GET or POST).

Author: ```suggestion
To use an existing service that provides authentication, the ingress rule can be annotated with `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-url` to indicate the address where the HTTP request should be sent. Additionally, it's possible to set `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-method` to specify the HTTP method (GET or POST).
```

This functionality is based on the [`auth_request`](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_auth_request_module.html) module, which expects a `2xx` response code from the external service if the access is allowed and `401` or `403` if denied.

> ### CORS

Author: ```suggestion
###  Cross-Origin Resource Sharing
```

```yaml
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-body-size: 8m
```

### Custom connection timeout

ingress nginx controller allows to define the timeout that waits to close a connection (`keepalive`) with your workload. You can define a value in the main [`configmap`](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/configmap/#upstream-keepalive-timeout). The default value is `60` and it's measured in seconds.

There are many other timeouts that can be customized when configuring an ingress. Take a look at the [official docs](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations/#custom-timeouts).

**Warning**: When running in cloud provider environments you may often rely on integrated services like AWS NLBs or Azure LBs. Those intermediate Load Balancers could have their own settings which can be in the request path conflicting with values defined in ingress Resources. [Read how to configure ingress nginx controller in cloud environments to avoid unexpected results]({{< relref "/vintage/advanced/connectivity/ingress/service-type-loadbalancer/index.md" >}}#other-aws-elb-configuration-options).

> ### Session Affinity

Author: ```suggestion
### Session affinity
```

Warning: We recommend enabling this option only if you TRUST users with permission to create ingress objects, as this may allow a user to add restricted configurations to the final `nginx.conf` file.

Here is an example adding an `Expires` header to every response:

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: ingress
metadata:
  name: INGRESS_NAME
  annotations:
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/configuration-snippet: |
      expires 24h;
spec:
  ingressClassName: nginx
  rules:
  - host: YOUR_CHOICE.CLUSTER_ID.k8s.gigantic.io
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /foo
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: SERVICE_NAME
            port:
              number: SERVICE_PORT
```

Make sure to use the exact annotation scheme `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/configuration-snippet` in the `metadata` section of the manifest.

In case you want to set up a general HTTP snippet you can define it at [ingress nginx controller ConfigMap](#configmap) level.

> ## Global (per cluster) options {#configmap}
> 
> Your Giant Swarm installation comes with a default configuration for the ingress controller.
> 
> You can override these defaults by setting your per cluster configuration in the form of a ConfigMap named `ingress-nginx-user-values` in the management cluster.
> 
> The page [App configuration reference]({{< relref "/vintage/getting-started/app-platform/app-configuration/index.md" >}}) contains more information how to set user defined configuration for the ingress nginx controller.

Author: ```suggestion
## Global cluster options {#configmap}

Your Giant Swarm installation comes with a default configuration for the ingress controller.

You can override these defaults by setting your per-cluster configuration in a ConfigMap named `ingress-nginx-user-values` in the management cluster.

The page [App configuration reference]({{< relref "/vintage/getting-started/app-platform/app-configuration/index.md" >}}) contains more information on how to set user-defined configuration for the ingress nginx controller.
```

NAME                        DATA      AGE
ingress-nginx-user-values   0         11m
```

__Warning__:

Please don't edit any of the other ingress nginx controller related ConfigMaps.

Only the user ConfigMap is safe to edit.

---

### How to set configuration options using the user values ConfigMap

You are able to set any value from the [upstream documentation](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/configmap/) by including them in the user values ConfigMap under the `data.values` field like so:

```yaml
# On the management cluster
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: ingress-nginx-user-values
  namespace: NAMESPACE
data:
  values: |
    controller:
      config:
        log-format-upstream: "MY EDITED LOG FORMAT - $status $body_bytes_sent $http_referer"
```

However keep in mind: With great power comes great responsibility!

If the ConfigMap doesn't exist, create it. In this case you'll need to reference it in the App CR of the ingress controller.

```yaml
# Add missing keys to the spec field of the App CR
spec:
  userConfig:
    configMap:
      name: ingress-nginx-user-values
      namespace: NAMESPACE
```

> Any defaults that we override are visible in the following `values.yaml` file, under the `controller.config` key. Check this [`values.yaml`](https://github.com/giantswarm/ingress-nginx-app/blob/main/helm/ingress-nginx/values.yaml) as an example.
> 
> Don't copy all the defaults if you don't need to change them, that way we can adjust them in case they need to change.
> 
> Do make sure you look at the right tag of that repository, when reading this file check that the tag corresponds to the version of the ingress nginx controller running on your cluster.
> 
> ### Configure Proxy Protocol

Author: ```suggestion
Any defaults we override are visible in the following `values.yaml` file under the `controller.config` key. Check this [`values.yaml`](https://github.com/giantswarm/ingress-nginx-app/blob/main/helm/ingress-nginx/values.yaml) as an example.

Don't copy all the defaults if you don't need to change them; that way, we can adjust them in case they need to be changed.

Please make sure you look at the right tag in that repository. When reading this file, check that the tag corresponds to the version of the ingress nginx controller running on your cluster.

### Configure proxy protocol
```

```yaml
# On the management cluster
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: ingress-nginx-user-values
  namespace: NAMESPACE
data:
  values: |
    controller:
      config:
        use-proxy-protocol: "false"
```

---

### Default certificate

When you want to have the default server on the ingress nginx controller support TLS you need to provide a certificate. This is configured using the flag `--default-ssl-certificate`. Now you can provide this value in the user values ConfigMap to force the component to be restarted with the provided certificate. The value of the property should be the namespace and secret name which holds the certificate content.

```yaml
data:
  values: |
    controller:
       extraArgs:
         default-ssl-certificate: <namespace>/<secret_name>
```

### Custom annotation prefix

By default we use the standard annotation prefix `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io` in the ingress controller. In case you want to have a specific one this can be achieved via the user values ConfigMap:

```yaml
data:
  values: |
    controller:
      extraArgs:
        annotations-prefix: custom.prefix.io
```

> ### Web Application Firewall
> 
> ingress nginx controller ships with the [ModSecurity](https://www.modsecurity.org) module which can be used for enhancing your ingress nginx controller deployment by Web Application Firewall capabilities to protect your workload against malicious requests.
> 
> While enabling those capabilities in the first step is quite easy, it might take some more effort to actually fine-tune it to your needs. Since especially in blocking mode even legal requests might get blocked, we recommend to first run ModSecurity in the detection mode and observe its logs while it already checks incoming traffic for malicious requests.
> 
> The included configuration is split into two parts: One is used for the basic setup of the ModSecurity module, the other is the [OWASP ModSecurity Core Rule Set](https://coreruleset.org) which provides a collection of rules against common and well-known attack vectors. While both can be enabled in parallel, the former will keep the whole ModSecurity in the before mentioned detection mode by default until explicitly configured otherwise:

Author: ```suggestion
### Web Application Firewall

The ingress nginx controller ships with the [ModSecurity](https://www.modsecurity.org) module, which can be used to enhance your ingress nginx controller deployment by Web Application Firewall capabilities to protect your workload against malicious requests.

While enabling those capabilities in the first step is quite easy, it might take some more effort to fine-tune it to your needs. Since, especially in blocking mode, even legal requests might get blocked; we recommend first running ModSecurity in the detection mode and observing its logs. At the same time, it already checks incoming traffic for malicious requests.

The included configuration is split into two parts: One is used for the basic setup of the ModSecurity module, and the other is the [OWASP ModSecurity Core Rule Set](https://coreruleset.org), which provides a collection of rules against common and well-known attack vectors. While both can be enabled in parallel, the former will keep the whole ModSecurity in the detection above mode by default until explicitly configured otherwise:
```
